This feature requires the package `catpaw/web`, which can be installed using<br/>
```
composer require catpaw/web
```
<hr/>

# Automated routes

Automated routes are routes that are created automatically by describing the router through the filesystem rather than by programmatically calling `$server->router->[method]`.

Before defining a router through the file system you should pick a directory to scan.

You can do this by specifying the `routes` property when starting the web server.
```php
use CatPaw\Web\Server;

function main(){
    Server::create(routes:'./your/directory')->start();
}
```
All your route files will be relative to the `your/directory` directory.

# How to define a route

Create a file `/get.php` inside  `your/directory`, this file should return a function.
```php
return function(){
    return "hello world";
};
```

- The resulting function can inject any of the dependencies that a normal route handler would, including path parameters, sessions, produced and consumed content etc.<br/>
  That is because, under the hood, the resulting function is actually used to create a normal route handler, which means that the OpenAPI service will detect these routes and automatically document them for you.

- The file name should always be `[METHOD].php` where `[METHOD]` is an http method.<br/>
  This way the scanner is able to infer the http method to use when exposing the function you're returning.

- The route path will match the location of your file relative to `your/directory`, in this case `/`.

This means that, in this case, the scanner will automatically pick up the function and use it to map a route handler for `GET /`, which when called will return the string `hello world` as `text/plain`.

The equivalent route handler definition would be:

```php

use CatPaw\Web\Server;

function main(){
  $server = Server::create();
  $server->router->get('/', function(){
      return "hello world";
  });
  $server->start();
}
```

Let's see another example:

File name is `/about/{username}/get.php`

```php
return fn(#[Param] string $username)=>"this is $username's about page.";
```

As you can see, this example is injecting a path parameter, that is because the infered path in this case is `/about/{username}`, which makes the parameter `#[Param] string $username` a valid injection.

> **Note** You can read more about path parameters [here](https://github.com/tncrazvan/catpaw-core/blob/master/docs/2.path-parameters.md).

The equivalent route handler definition would be:

```php
use CatPaw\Web\Attributes\Param;
use CatPaw\Web\Server;

function main(){
    $server = Server::create();
    $server->router->get('/about/{username}',fn(#[Param] string $username)=>"this is $username's about page.");
    $server->start();
}
```

# Mandatory POST example

If you've read the previous [routes guide](https://github.com/tncrazvan/catpaw-core/blob/master/docs/1.routes.md), consuming the body of an incoming `POST` request might be obvious how to do, but nevertheless, here I go.

It works the same as any route handler, simply inject the request body using the `#[\CatPaw\Web\Attributes\Body]` attribute:

```php
use CatPaw\Web\Attributes\Body;

return function(#[Body] string $body){
    return 'received:'.$body;
}
```
Accepting only specific content types:

```php
use CatPaw\Web\Attributes\Consumes;
use CatPaw\Web\Attributes\Body;

return 
#[Consumes("application/json")]
function(#[Body] array $body){
    return 'received:'.json_encode($body);
}
```

And obviously, all of this will be automatically documented by the OpenAPI service.
