This feature requires the package `catpaw/web`, which can be installed using<br/>
```
composer require catpaw/web
```
<hr/>

# File system routes

Before defining a route handler through the file system you should pick a directory to scan.

You can do this by specifying the `routesFromFileSystem` property when starting the web server.
```php
use CatPaw\Web\WebServer;

function main(){
    yield WebServer::start( routesFromFileSystem: './your/directory' );
}
```
All your route files will be relative to the `your/directory` directory.

# How to define a route

Create a file `/index.get.php` inside  `your/directory`, this file should return a function.
```php
return function(){
    return "hello world";
};
```

- The resulting function can inject any of the dependencies that a normal route handler would, including path parameters, sessions, produced and consumed content etc.<br/>
  That is because, under the hood, the resulting function is actually used to create a normal route handler, which means that the OpenAPI service will detect these routes and automatically document them for you.

- The file name should always end with the extension `.[METHOD].php` where `[METHOD]` is an http method.<br/>
  This way the scanner is able to infer the http method to use when exposing the function you're returning.

- The route path will match the location of your file relative to `your/directory`, in this case `/`.

- The file name `index.[METHOD].php` is reserved.<br/>
  When the scanner finds the string `index` in the file name it will completely ignore it.<br/>
  The `[METHOD]` will not be ignored however.

This means that, in this case, the scanner will automatically pick up the function and use it to map a route handler for `GET /`, which when called will return the string `hello world` as `text/plain`.

The equivalent route handler definition would be:

```php
Route::get('/',function(){
    return "hello world";
});
```

Let's see another example:

File name is `/about/{username}/index.get.php`

```php
return fn(#[Param] string $username)=>"this is $username's about page.";
```

As you can see, this example is injecting a path parameter, that is because the infered path in this case is `/about/{username}`, which makes the parameter `#[Param] string $username` a valid injection.

The equivalent route handler definition would be:

```php
use CatPaw\Web\Attributes\StartWebServer;
use CatPaw\Web\Attributes\Route;
use CatPaw\Web\Attributes\Param;

#[StartWebServer]
function main(){
    Route::get('/about/{username}',fn(#[Param] string $username)=>"this is $username's about page.");
}
```

# Other file names

You don't have to name all your files as `index.[METHOD].php`, although some may prefer to organize their routes that way.


Using any other name will automatically register the file name itself as part of the path.

So this file name is allowed `/about/{username}.get.php`<br/>
And it will match 

- `GET /about/user1`
- `GET /about/user2`
- `GET /about/user3`
- etc...

Even this is allowed: `/about/admin-{username}.get.php`<br/>
And it will match

- `GET /about/admin-user1`
- `GET /about/admin-user2`
- `GET /about/admin-user3`
- etc...

As long as the file system permits it and its a valid route name, it will be handled as a normal route handler name (since it actually is, as mentioned before).

# Mandatory POST example

If you've read the previous guides, consuming the body of an incoming `POST` request might be obvious how to do, but nevertheless, here I go.

It works the same as any route handler or controller, simply inject the request body using the `#[\CatPaw\Web\Attributes\Body]` attribute:

```php
use CatPaw\Web\Attributes\Body;

return function( #[Body] string $body ){
    return 'received:'.$body;
}
```
Accepting only specific content types:

```php
use CatPaw\Web\Attributes\Consumes;
use CatPaw\Web\Attributes\Body;

return 
#[Consumes("application/json")]
function( #[Body] array $body ){
    return 'received:'.json_encode($body);
}
```

And obviously, all of this will be automatically documented by the OpenAPI service.
