# Custom Attributes

You can create your own attributes in order to apply changes to function/method parameters.<br/>

---

## Creating an attribute

A few things before starting:<br/>

- An attribute is a class that's annotated with `#[Attribute]`.<br/>
- Attributes alone won't interact with CatPaw by themselves, in order to enable that interaction the class must
  implement `CatPaw\Attributes\Interfaces\AttributeInterface`.
- The default `AttributeInterface` implementation is defined in the
  trait `CatPaw\Attributes\Traits\CoreAttributeDefinition`.

### Hello world

Create the attribute class<br/>

```php
use Attribute;
use CatPaw\Attributes\Interfaces\AttributeInterface;
use CatPaw\Attributes\Traits\CoreAttributeDefinition;

#[Attribute]
class HelloWorldAttribute implements AttributeInterface{
    use CoreAttributeDefinition;

    public function __construct() {
        echo "hello world\n";
    }
}
```

then annotate a scoped parameter with it<br/>

```php
$server->router->get(
  path:"/",
  callback: function(
      #[HelloWorldAttribute]
      string $greeting = 'hello';
  ){
    return $greeting;
  }
);
```

When executing the function, a new instance of the attribute will be created, which will output to the console the "hello world" string and return "hello" as an output.

## Mutating a parameter

Simply creating an instance of the attribute might be enough in some cases, but in most cases more control is
required.<br/>

You can overwrite the `onParameterMount` method of the attribute in order to get more information on the parameter and change
it's value.<br/>

```php
use Attribute;
use CatPaw\Attributes\Interfaces\AttributeInterface;
use CatPaw\Attributes\Traits\CoreAttributeDefinition;
use CatPaw\Web\HttpContext;

#[Attribute]
class HelloWorldAttribute implements AttributeInterface{
    use CoreAttributeDefinition;

    public function __construct(private string $name) {}
    
    public function onParameterMount(ReflectionParameter $parameter, mixed &$value, mixed $context) {
        $value = "$value $this->name";
    }
}
```

This will modify the default value of the parameter to `"$value $this->name"`, meaning that in the following case:

```php
$server->router->get(
    path:"/",
    callback: function(
        #[HelloWorldAttribute('world']
        string $greeting = 'hello';
    ){
      return $greeting;
    }
);

```

the output of the function will be `hello world`.


---

## Scoped Parameters

A scoped parameter is a parameter of a function/method that Catpaw is aware of.<br/>
These parameters can be annotated with Catpaw attributes to enhance their functionality or be automatically injected as dependencies.

The following are in scope of Catpaw by default:

1. The parameters of the `main` function.
1. The parameters of a [Route Handler](./1.routes.md).

Some attributes can bring a function or method parameters into scope:

1. The parameters of an [Entry](./5.entry.md), using `#[Entry]`.
1. The parameters of a `Singleton` or `Service` constructor, using `#[Singleton]` or `#[Service]` (Documentation TBD).
